This repository contains two projects:

1.	miRNA Analysis: Currently, doctors use a one-size fits all approach when it comes to prescribing medications. As a result, the medication can have positive, negative, or no effects on a patient. Personalized medicine, or giving patients treatment based on their genetic makeup, is one way to combat the inefficiencies that come with prescription medicines. Additionally, miRNAs are significant in controlling gene expression and have been shown to be involved in the development of cancer tumors. Thus, I created a program that unites the ideas of personalized medicine and miRNAs. Specifically, it compares a patient’s miRNA expression to cancer tumors and controlled patients through T-tests, scatterplots, and heatmaps. In addition, the program finds the 30 most differentially expressed (or abnormal) genes through miRNA analysis. Visit https://youtu.be/cnqIIKqL8Cs for more information.

2.	RNAseq Analysis: Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) act as treatments for checks in the immune system that are hijacked by cancer cells. Even though ICIs are great possible treatments for cancer, they can have inverse related adverse effects (IRAEs) on other organs such as the heart. Even though the chances of cardiac IRAEs are low, they have a 50% mortality rate. Thus, in this project, I conducted RNA-seq analysis to analyze differences in T-cell expression and growth between cardiac disease and cancer. By doing so, I found certain T-cells in cancer tumors that can be targeted without activating autoreactive T-cells that can cause adverse effects on the heart. Applications of this project include making personalized medicine for cancer.
